## Common used commands

You can use the below commands in the terminal.

- **docker run image-name-here** - will run container specified by its name. The pattern is, that after run we provide the image name. Basically this command with create a container from an image and run it. Run command is shorthand syntax for _docker create_ and _docker start_, for an image, which means, that run will not just run some container, but also create it first.

- **docker create hello-world** - will create container based on the provided image. The operation will return the container id, which we can use for various things, for example to start the container.

- **docker start -a container-id-here** - will start a container we created. We select which container to start based on the provided container id. The provided command _-a_ will print on the console the output from the container, otherwise we will get back only the id.

- **docker stop container-id-here** - will send SIGTERM signal to stop the container and will also give time for running items in the container to be closed properly.

- **docker kill container-id-here** - will send SIGKILL signal to stop the container and will immediately terminate running items in the container.

- **docker run busybox echo my random text** - here we will run image called busybox and we will provide additional command _echo_ which will log to the console the text 'my random text'. This image is from the docker hub so if you don't have it locally, it will be automatically downloaded. Note that commnands provided to the image will be specific for the image, for example command _echo_ will be missing and result in error if we use it on image, which doesn't have _echo_ command.

- **docker exec -it container-id-here some-command** - will run a container. _exec_ will allow us to execute additional commands on the container. _-it_ allows us to write input directly to the container, it is shorthand syntax for -i -t, the -t will pretify the output like formatting.

For example run _docker run redis_. Then in another powershell terminal run _docker ps_ to be able to get the container id. And lastly run _docker exec -it container-id-here redis-cli_. And you will be able to access the redis console inside the container.

- **docker exec -it container-id-here sh** - will give us a terminal inside of the container, where we can run commands. To exit the container terminal use ctrl+c or ctrl+d. _sh_ is command processor available for most of the images, sh is similar to git bash or powershell.

- **docker ps** - will list all the running containers.

- **docker ps --all** - will list all the containers we ever ran.

- **docker logs container-id-here** - will print all the logs from the container. This operation is not rerunning the container, it collects the already logged items.

- **docker system prune** - will removed the containers we have. Run the command if you want to see which type of containers will be removed and if you want to proceed, you will be prompted to agree with the removing. The result from the operations if you agree to be completed will be the id's of the removed containers.
